[Music]
how deep is the ocean in reality a
whopping 94 percent of all life-forms on
earth are aquatic it sounds shocking and
makes you a land dweller a small
minority doesn't it at the same time
such a huge number of living beings who
can't survive without water is
understandable after all more than 70%
of our planet's surface is covered with
water the world ocean includes the
Pacific Ocean the Atlantic Ocean the
Indian Ocean and the Arctic Ocean
there's enough water in the oceans to
fill a 685 mile-long bathtub and people
have explored just 5% of this enormous
water reservoir this means that the
other 95 percent is still hiding its
secrets and tucking away its mysteries
one of the main nagging questions people
have been asking for ages how deep is
the ocean in reality subscribe to our
Channel and you'll get the answer not
only to this but also a lot of other
questions all the secrets are waiting to
be revealed on the bright side of life
have you clicked the red button great
then let's get down to the very bottom
of the world ocean our descent will be
slow and steady otherwise we may miss
some milestones on the way sunlit zone
14.5 feet is the depth of the standard
Olympic diving pool with a 33 foot high
diving platform the submerged coastal
remains of the seven pagodas of Mahalo
be purim a city in India lie 26 feet
below the surface of the water at least
that's what scientists believe at a
depth of 33 feet scuba divers get their
first martini the compressed nitrogen
which divers have in their air tanks
leads to an effect similar to drinking
one martini cocktail for every 33 feet
of descent 65 feet down and you will
find shallow coral reefs if you are
diving in some tropical location of
course you'll also get your second
martini which will lead to mild euphoria
at 100 feet underwater in polar and
temperate areas there are kelp forests
some of the most dynamic and productive
ecosystems on earth in addition your
third martini makes your response is
delayed but at the same time you feel
overconfident 115 feet is the depth of a
plunge pool under Niagara Falls and
that's almost two-thirds the height of
the Falls 131 feet is the maximum depth
that is allowed for recreational scuba
diving besides this is the depth of the
deepest swimming pool in the world y40
is a diving pool situated in the
four-star hotel monta grotto terme in
Padua Italy this swimming pool is in the
Guinness World Records you can buy
tickets at the hotel and enjoy free
diving or scuba diving 196 feet and you
are drinking your 6th martini which can
lead to hallucinating at this point
killer whales usually dwell at the same
depth and the normal operating depth of
world war ii us summaries is just a tiny
bit deeper at 213 feet Italian
underwater cyclist Vittorio innocente a
manage the deepest underwater cycling in
the world in 2008 having descended to
230 feet below the ocean surface you'll
encounter whale sharks which are the
largest fish species in existence your
vii martini might make you feel terror
or on the contrary sleepiness at a depth
of 305 feet you'll see the wreck of RMS
Lusitania which was sunk in 1915 eleven
miles off the coast of Ireland by a
German u-boat it took the ship just 18
minutes to sink to the seabed taking
1198 passengers and crew members along
with it by the way if RMS Lusitania
weren't lying flat on the bottom she
would be sticking out of the water
because the length of this ship was 787
feet 328 feet can be a fatal depth for
divers who have failed to exercise
caution
the reason is decompression sickness it
can occur if a diver starts to rise to
the surface too quickly in this case the
water pressure changes too rapidly and
as a result nitrogen doesn't have enough
time to clear from a person's blood or
tissues this leads to the appearance of
nitrogen bubbles which can damage the
blood vessels and block blood flow
what's more unlucky divers experience
terrible joint pain a common symptom
which often makes people double over
despite these potentially dire
consequences Herbert niche managed to
get as deep as 700 two feet the most
amazing thing about this is the fact
that the man was free diving he
descended there having taken just one
single breath at that depth of 328 feet
one more unique inhabitant of the ocean
water spends its days the Giant Pacific
octopus this creature resembles the
chameleon in its ability to change
appearance to match rocks and corals in
fact it's this octopus species which can
reach twenty feet in length that
inspired horror stories about sea
monsters grabbing sailors off their
ships some more food for thought if you
capture an octopus it will amuse itself
by shooting water at its targets what if
you happen to be a target for one of
those 20 foot long creatures at 354 feet
you'll find K 141 Kursk
a Russian nuclear submarine it sank in
2000 after something went terribly wrong
during a naval exercise
a depth of 426 feet entered the Guinness
World Records thanks to the deepest
underwater wedding which happened in
Thailand diving instructor Hiroyuki
Yoshida and Sandra Smith became spouses
on September 30th 2013 at 591 feet under
the water surface rms carpathia found
her last dwelling this ship became
famous after her participation in the
rescue of the Titanic survivors
unfortunately a torpedo attack in 1918
sank this heroic ship Twilight Zone @
656 feet the twilight zone begins that's
where you can see the giant oarfish
let's be honest these less than
beautiful creatures can grow as long as
35 feet and gain a weight of 600 pounds
when you look at the red rays that
sprout on the dorsal fins of these
snake-like fish and their bulging eyes
you might grasp the notion of sea
monster let's get down to 984 feet oh no
there's no need to panic it's just a
Japanese spider crab well admittedly
they can grow to be more than 12 feet
long and weigh as much as 44 pounds yes
they can have a 13 foot wide leg span
and this makes it possible for them to
tower over you if they feel like doing
so but all this might is mostly legs as
for the body of the crab it's typically
no larger than a foot and a half across
hmm perhaps this fact makes them on the
contrary even more terrifying what's
your opinion we'd love to know it tell
us in the comments below and 1089 feet
descent and you'll reach the death of
the deepest scuba dive Hamid Gobber from
Egypt accomplished it in 2014
you'll need to go 1332 feet down to find
the bottom of Lake Superior this Lake
belongs to both Canada and the USA and
is the largest freshwater lake in the
world by its surface at a depth of 1453
feet
you could reach the height of the Empire
State Building if somebody powerful
enough decided to submerge it underwater
1640 feet is the deepest blue whales can
dive blue whales are the largest and
loudest animals on our planet if you
imagine an animal as tall as a 10-story
building that would be a vertically
positioned blue whale the longest blue
whale ever recorded reached 108 feet the
tongue of this creature weighed as much
as an elephant and its heart was as
heavy as a car as for being loud you can
compare it for yourself
a jet engine makes a noise at 140
decibels the call of a blue whale can
reach 188 decibels
their moans groans and pulses are heard
by other whales at a distance of 1000
miles kind of like the sound my dad made
that one time I accidentally stepped on
his foot
the 1,755 feet is as deep as the emperor
penguin can dive at this depth the water
pressure that a penguin or a person
experiences is equal to the pressure a
quarter feels when a polar bear is
standing on it the so far channel or
deep sound channel starts at a depth of
1968 feet this is a layer of water used
by whales and submarines for a long
distance
sonic communication two thousand one
feet below the surface is the deepest a
person innate es su atmospheric diving
system soot can die at a depth of 2,200
96 feet lives the European eel this
unfortunately critically endangered
species can be found in Europe and the
eel can reach almost 5 feet in length
two thousand seven hundred twenty three
feet is the height of the tallest
building in the world the Burj Khalifa
in Dubai
the giant squid lives as deep as 2900 52
feet below the surface it size being ten
point five inches across are the size of
frisbees that are filled with water
which leaks out of the squid dies
females are 10 feet longer than males by
the
the average length of this creature due
to deep-sea gigantism is about 40 feet
the suckers of this giant squid have
serrated rings around them when attacked
by sperm whales their main enemies
squids use them to leave huge circular
wounds still from 4.5 to ten million
giant squid get eaten every year by
sperm whales midnight zone the light
coming from the surface doesn't reach
this point so you will see nothing but
impenetrable darkness on top of that the
water pressure you'd feel if you reach
this point would be the same as you'd
experience standing on the planet Venus
you'd be crushed almost immediately at a
depth of three thousand six hundred
eight feet
there's the deepest volcano recorded by
scientists that's west mada in the
Pacific Ocean
three thousand nine hundred thirty seven
feet is the depth where the so far
Channel ends deadly ferocious and
unbelievably fast great white sharks who
can live longer than 70 years feel great
at a depth of four thousand one hundred
ninety nine feet and that's where most
swimmers prefer that they stay the same
depth also witnesses the deepest reptile
dives these dives are performed by the
largest living turtle species the
leatherback turtle they're famous for
the absence of a hard shell 4921 feet is
the depth at which that catch-all
industrial fishing method is used
that's when huge nets with heavy weights
fastened to them are dragged along the
seafloor to capture everything that
hasn't been wise enough to get out of
the way five thousand three hundred
eighty three feet is the maximum depth
of Lake Baikal Russia the largest by
volume freshwater lake in the world
if you descend it even deeper down to
five thousand nine hundred ninety seven
feet you'd reach the deepest part of the
Grand Canyon if it was situated under
water at six thousand five hundred sixty
one feet you'd have a chance to come
across the black dragon fish and this
wouldn't be a happy encounter in fact
this dragon fish looks pretty much the
same as the creature from the alien
face luckily due to some peculiarities
of this living being you wouldn't be
able to spot it unless you used a
flashlight but it would be better not to
seven thousand three hundred eighty one
feet is the deepest sperm whales can
dive these whales also called Kasia lots
are the largest toothed whales reaching
sixty two feet in length a depth of nine
thousand eight hundred forty two feet
will reveal to you deep-sea coral reefs
they can be found in all oceans at a
depth of ten thousand four hundred feet
the deepest offshore drilling happens
twelve thousand seventy three feet is
the average depth of the world ocean
twelve thousand four hundred sixty seven
feet of water separate you from the
wreck of RMS Titanic a British passenger
ship that collided with an iceberg in
the Atlantic and sank in 1912 you might
have heard of it just a bit lower at
twelve thousand seven hundred ninety
five feet below the water surface there
are Air France flight 447 black boxes
Airbus a thirty three thirty crashed
into the Atlantic Ocean in two thousand
nine the abyss at a depth of thirteen
thousand 123 feet the midnight zone ends
and the abyss lies ahead
the first terrifying thing about this
zone is the water pressure it's a
shocking 11,000 pounds per square inch
can anything alive survive in such
conditions the answer is a confident yes
numerous nightmarish and strange
creatures inhabit these depths including
the viperfish angler fish and fangtooth
fish water at a depth of 15,000 91 feet
is filled with various marine litter
plastic and fishing nets are the most
typical ocean pollutants get down to
sixteen thousand three hundred five feet
and you'll see hydrothermal vents
spewing hot water these are sometimes
called black smokers eighteen thousand
eight hundred ninety seven feet is the
depth at which you can find the deepest
shipwreck
ss Rio Grande sunk in 1941 in the South
Atlantic and was discovered only in 1996
Trench zone at a depth of 19 thousand
six hundred eighty five feet the abyss
ends and gives way to the trench zone
the water pressure at this depth is
1,100 times more than you feel at the
surface of the ocean this is the same
pressure a person would feel if they had
to carry about fifty boeing 747 jumbo
jets if you somehow teleported to this
depth with no outside protection you
would be crushed immediately the ISIS
underwater robot which is used for
scientific research can reach a depth of
20 1325 feet at 26,000 738 feet the
deepest fish was observed alive this was
the snail fish seen in the Mariana
Trench in 2014 34,000 973 feet that's
the depth that xenovia fors giant
single-celled organisms that can grow up
to eight feet find comfortable for life
in 2012 James Cameron the producer of
the abyss and Titanic went almost all
the way down to the bottom of Challenger
Deep the deepest known place on earth in
a small submarine he descended to 35,000
754 feet below the ocean surface
describing the place as incredibly
lonely and almost sterile and the
deepest point reached by humans was a
depth of 35,000 813 feet
it happened in 1960 when Don Walsh and
Jacques Piccard ascended to this
incredible death in their bath escape
Trieste they spent five hours descending
to the necessary level unfortunately
they managed to spend only twenty
minutes there after that one of the
submarine windows cracked and the men
decided to return let's move just a tiny
bit further down 36,000 feet is the
average flight altitude of a commercial
airplane have you
look down out of an airplane window if
you have then you can imagine how
unbelievably deep our oceans are and
eventually at a depth of 30 6070 feet
you will reach the very bottom of the
ocean in its deepest point known to man
challenger deep on the other hand
scientists and researchers believe that
even this incredible depth isn't the
deepest point of the ocean the time will
come when humankind discovers new
challenger deep who knows maybe then the
world ocean will decide to reveal some
more of its mysteries
do you agree hit the like button if
you'd love to know more secrets of our
planet seas and oceans and please tell
us in the comments below would you dare
go down to the bottom of the Mariana
Trench